well howdy there Internet people its
bill again and tonight we've got
American chance with non-compete okay so
give our viewers a little bit of insight
who are you uh that's that's a good
question my name is American Johnson
that's my inner that's my real fake name
as I like to say I run the YouTube
channel non-compete you can find it at
youtube.com slash non-compete I consider
myself an anarchic communist but we
talked to leftists from around the world
from various different strains my
partner who runs a channel with me is a
Marxist Leninist Vietnamese woman who's
sort of in the Ho Chi Minh School of the
left but you know we talked to Social
Democrats who talked to all kinds
anybody who's basically critical of
capitalism and wants to see radical
change in the way you know our systems
are run and operated that's that's what
we're all about
so I'm looking at your YouTube channel
here I'm a little confused that this is
obviously made for kids
I see Legos and yeah you know we're all
about trying to lure kids to our channel
by talking about old dead guys with
beards talking about you know the means
of production that's that's our child
focused content you know that's our
that's our that's our whole thing we do
have puppets yeah so if you're not
familiar with the channel we have like
puppet shows where we have like horses
and goats and superheroes you know
struggling with their meager existence
in capitalism and trying to find ways to
overthrow the government and I do a few
videos with Legos as well I have a
series called how anarchism works where
you know we basically just use Legos as
like a sort of like just b-roll so you
know to illustrate some of the points
we're talking about and you know I have
but but I have never to my knowledge
I've never had a I might have children
watching but I've never had any kind of
interaction with a viewer who is a child
so but according to the YouTube Coppa
guidelines we've been given because it's
colorful and fun it's apparently for
children I guess I'll go ahead and kind
of just quickly explain what Coppa is
it's an old law from I think 1998 right
and I think it's it's around the time
when I was under 13 actually right right
around the time I turned 13 is when
Coppa came out and it's basically it's
it's not a terrible law the whole idea
is to protect the privacy of children on
the Internet and to keep companies from
harvesting data from children which i
think is you know that makes sense I
don't want you know I don't have kids
but if I did I wouldn't want big
corporations harvesting data of them and
that sort of thing and so that's what it
really comes down to is the harvesting
of data from children now Google through
YouTube has been aggressively harvesting
data from children specifically on the
platform of YouTube and the FTC
basically decided to finally do
something about it and but they worked
out an agreement where they did find
YouTube about like 127 million dollars I
believe
and that's basically it and then they
worked out an agreement where they would
punish content creators who don't
collect data if you violate this Coppa
thing according to what the FTC saying
they will they will sue you for a 40 mm
something dollar fine which you know
like if that happens to me I've already
decide I don't there's no way I have
$42,000 it's never gonna I'm never gonna
have work so you know I'm gonna see what
I could do about you know fighting back
in court if that should happen now there
are some people who are saying that so
basically in January the FTC is gonna
roll out some like more specific
legislation or I guess I don't know
there's the they'll make legislation
because they're an agency so I guess it
would be a whatever you call it I'm not
a lawyer I did yeah but they're gonna
yeah they're gonna make more specific
rulings and apparently some people are
saying that it's gonna be hopefully make
more so I mean to me it's like and as
like a leftist anarchist who completely
opposes everything the USA stands for I
still know that we do have the First
Amendment and this flies completely in
the face of the First Amendment because
it doesn't say you know the freedom of
speech shall not be abridged unless it
might be appealing to children so I see
this standing up in any kind of you know
court situation at all like you know if
you it's pretty easy to demonstrate you
know that what I'm practicing on YouTube
is protected speech and if the FTC wants
to try to limit that speech because I
use puppets in my videos I just can't
see that standing up so I don't know if
anybody with the ACLU or anybody like
that wants to reach out but um if it
goes down that path where I get sued by
the FTC I'm fully prepared to fight
against it you know the other thing is I
live in Vietnam and like so my partner
Luna okay she's a like I was saying
earlier she's a Vietnamese woman she
lives here in Vietnam she's a Vietnamese
citizen she's never visited the USA
she she's made some videos that are like
like for instance she she does a video
where she tells the Vietnamese version
of the story of Cinderella which is a
very violent dark telling of the story
but she like Illustrated it she's very
she does he's very beautiful drawings
and I could definitely see somebody
could say like well that might
appealing to children even though she
wasn't targeting children at all when
she made it like her audiences all
adults from what we know and but you
know if she get it what would happen to
her I mean she's Vietnamese so well from
what I understand the FTC would find
YouTube and if it gets into that kind of
situation like I'm just trying to think
of head think ahead here as a creator as
somebody who's a full-time youtuber you
know this is this is what I do for a
living and so what Luna does for a
living I can only imagine YouTube's
aggressively erring on the side of like
shutting channels down and deleting
content or making it unex inaccessible
if they get in the situation
we need to start building our own
alternative platforms and supporting
alternative platforms Macedon is
actually an alternative to Twitter but
it's a federated platform and it sounds
complicated but it's actually pretty
simple so what that basically means is
that it's a social media network that is
composed of a lot of smaller social
media they call them instances but you
could just think of them as like a
server that's probably easiest way to
wrap your head around it so anybody
could start a mastadon server and then
link it up with all the other masses on
the servers and then so what that does
is it a it puts the ownership of the
social media platform in the hands of
the actual people who use it right it's
a lot more granular so if you're if
you're on a server and you don't like so
for instance well let me give you a real
world example there was a fascist group
of people who started their own instance
of on this platform and it was like very
pro fascist free speech absolutist kind
of thing and so all the other instances
in the mastodons network which we call
the Fed averse because it's federated
all those other instances just basically
banned that server so if that makes
sense so like if you're running a server
and you don't like what's happening on
another server you could just disconnect
from that server while staying connected
to all the rest of them and so it's a
great solution it's a distributed system
it it's it puts a lot of ownership in
the hands of us the users and now there
is a maturing platform called peer tube
it is a direct competitor to YouTube
it's built on the same kind of a system
and so we have all these different
instances of peer tube that we can join
or we could even build our own you know
like leftist strands of peer tube
servers but you know I think that
ultimately anybody who's critical of
capitalism we would you know a goal of
ours should be to eliminate these
capitalist social media platforms and
replace them with more open source more
community owned and controlled and
operated platforms if somebody has to
start making these first steps I'm gonna
be doing it and I encourage anybody else
who's out there watching or making
content to check out peer tube it's it's
a work in progress it's always getting
better all the time I am NOT
technologically savvy enough to set up
my own instances of the stuff so explain
how it works how hard is
what do I had to do if I were to build
an instance all by myself
you know all by my lonesome I'm not so
sure that I could handle like the
security and keeping it updated and all
that kind of stuff
so I would want to work with somebody
who's like more of an experienced
developer to just you know keep it all
maintained so I think that the the the
real way to do this effectively would be
to start finding groups of people who
have various skill sets that we you know
where we could work together but what
anybody could do is build a channel on
an pre-existing instance so I mean if
you want to set up a channel on a
pre-existing instance it's as easy as
building a youtube channel I mean you
just make an account upload some videos
put in your keywords and all its exactly
like basically operating a YouTube
channel so I would say as a community we
should be working to build more
instances but then as individuals we
should just be like creating accounts
creating channels and most of all
watching stuff these systems are not
designed to be addictive they're not
designed to manipulate you they are not
designed to you know emotionally control
you the way that you exactly I mean so
like Twitter and Facebook they invest
millions of dollars they hire some of
the greatest psychological experts in
the world to get you hooked and to
manipulate you and to control you and to
make you do things that will you know
make other people a lot of money these
systems don't have those things so right
out of the box the first time you log on
to Mastodon or peer tube you're going to
find that it's not as habit-forming as
like Twitter or Facebook and it's kind
of weird it's like it's actually the way
it feels to me and I'm a little like I
said earlier I'm 35 years old I was
around you know at kind of the beginning
of the big internet boom in like the mid
to late 90s it feels more like that
what's Vietnam like there's much more of
a focus on like family and friends and
enjoying life and you'll see people I
mean like I guess what I really love
about Vietnam is that you know the
people work really hard but they're very
happy and you don't see that kind of
it's it's creeping in actually
especially with the office culture so
like a lot of white-collar jobs are
moving into the sort of Japanese Korean
model where there's like they're asking
people to come in on Saturdays and work
overtime every day with unpaid and all
that kind of thing but that's hopefully
they'll be able to avoid that from
getting too strong here but the the the
the organic culture in Vietnam for a
thousand years has been very anarchistic
very they're very skeptical of hierarchy
and authority believe it or not there's
a there's a saying in Vietnam which I
think encapsulate what I'm talking about
they say that the rule of the village
overrides the rule of the king so you
know everything is kind of locally
focused here if you look at the central
government of Vietnam it is a little
bureaucrat it's very bureaucratic it's
very bureaucratic it's very you know
top-down hierarchical but then if you go
into like a village and I've been to
village like kind of like town council
meeting sort of things and they solve
problems together
I'm gonna blindside you here other than
the peer-to-peer stuff and the the
different social media outlets give me a
solution to a problem you mean something
you saw him at Coppa specifically in
general yeah anything something that
people listening or watching to this
right now
can be like hey I can do that well the
real solution to all of our problems is
organizing together and building
solidarity with the working class I mean
that's that will always be the solution
to our problems it's the problem is the
left in the United States of America in
particular but also I would say around
the world has been gutted
you know unions have become a shadow of
what they used to be you know unions it
used to be very powerful like central to
the United States of American Way of
life through the decades the
Conservatives have just gutted unions I
think they're starting to come back
fortunately I think we're starting to
awaken again class consciousness with
people partly just because of
desperation I think so many people are
living such desperate meager existences
that you know we're looking for ways to
overcome them and the unions a great way
to do that the whole point is that we
learn how to work together we learn as
we go we find connections with each
other we networked together TLDR the key
is organization and building class
consciousness parting shot tell them
something something well yeah of course
I'll tell you to subscribe ironically I
will tell you to subscribe to my youtube
channel at youtube.com slash not compete
if even if you are fired up and ready to
get rid of YouTube and switch tip your
tube I don't have a peer Tube instance
yet because again it takes time to do
this kind of stuff so what I'm going to
be doing is my plan is to roll out the
peer Tube instance or at least my
channel in early 2020 so and I will be
documenting that whole experience on my
youtube channel at youtube.com slash
non-compete I'll be giving updates I
will be putting up tutorials for like
how to start your own peer tube instance
and I will also be participate
in the YouTube walkout on the 10th so
definitely yeah if you want to learn
more about that you can check out
youtube.com slash non-compete get
involved you know as it sits it's
understandable that we would have a fear
of these unknowns that we would have
trepidation about trying new things and
I understand why a lot of people are
might feel like we're destined to
failure but I believe you know like
people have done amazing things in the
past if you look at the history of the
left if you look at the history of the
working class we have done phenomenal
things in the past there's no reason we
can't do it now we have this technology
we have these tools that our
predecessors did not have so let's use
them let's fight together and let's
change the world